- Deployment of code is one of those areas
that all too often gets ignored
when it comes to developing a secure coding plan.
This is an unfortunate oversight,
as there are many ways to improve
the security of your system at this point.
One of the weakest points of secure deployments
is how you manage the sensitive configuration
of the systems being deployed.
The use of files on a file system
or in a startup script
all too often count as secure enough,
when in reality, they fail.
They expose significant attack vectors into your systems
or the systems you depend on.
There are, however, very powerful tools
and patterns that can be leveraged
to improve the secrecy and security
of these sensitive data points.
Some of the tooling have sophisticated APIs
and startup routines
that ensure your system will get its config,
and no one else can.
If you're deploying to a containerized framework,
you also likely have built-in support for secrets,
so at least consider using those.
Another step that seems
to increase the security is automation.
Any time a human has to be involved in deployments,
you increase the risks of compromise.
The operator may make a mistake with permissions
or leave something open that shouldn't be.
Worst-case scenario,
the operator may get disgruntled
and become the bad actor.
While automation is by no means a complete stopgap,
it can be a great opportunity to prevent internal attacks.
By forcing code through a peer review cycle,
and then only deploying
through an automated gating process,
you can ensure that the code running in production
has been fully vetted.
As long as the boxes doing the deployments
themselves are secured,
you have set yourself up to be more secure than not.
There are several other aspects
of secure deployment strategies,
but that could be a course on its own.
My purpose here is to get you thinking
of ways to improve your culture of security
around deployments.
As always, try and think like a bad actor
and see how you can prevent attacks,
and focus your efforts there first.